let's talk about the layout of the
keyboard shall we notice that there are
black keys and white keys and that the
black keys come in groups of two and
three and you're saying yourself right
now yeah big deal tell me something I
don't know right well first thing is
just imagine what it would be like to
play without the Black Keys right
without only be lost in fact I've had
nightmares about this when showing up in
a gig and this is what my piano looked
like so let me tell you something you
may not be aware right you know we need
the Black Keys to get oriented but you
got to be very careful you really
understand how they're laid out so let's
take a closer look so you might be
surprised to notice that only one of the
Black Keys and he give an octave the G
sharp a flat is actually located in the
middle of the cracks between the white
keys all the other black notes are
either shifted left of the crack or
right of the crack so let's take a look
at those other notes right c-sharp and
d-flat has shifted a bit left D sharp
and E flat shifted a bit right F sharp
and G flat is shifted a bit left and a
sharp B flat is shifted a bit right so I
just want to point these things out make
sure you're aware of this because you're
going to need to make very small
adjustments depending on
what's your plan so you might ask why
are these kids shifted the way they're
shifted well here's the answer it's so
you can fit your fingers in between the
black notes which gives you the option
of playing any white key anywhere along
its entire length which leads us to the
next aspect of the keys which is how
long they are so just notice the white
keys are about six inches long and the
Black Keys are about four inches long
and you might ask well why are they this
long well it's because your fingers are
different lengths and this gives you a
lot of freedom use any part of the ketta
feels comfortable any part of the key
and this is absolutely central to
freeing up your technique as we'll see
later on in the video